# Analysis of Coaching Ideology Consistency on Team Performance

## Purpose

This project seeks to synthesize sociological theories of network construction with college football performance to analyze the impacts of coaching staff construction on team performance.

## Running the Project
### As of 7/10/25

The 'On3_coaching_parsing' file uses On3's repository of coaches to compile a list of all available coaches and their full coaching histories. The final output is an ordered CSV, but the code creates intermediate JSON files at stages where research may branch off.

The 'basic_graph_generatation' file takes this output CSV file and creates a basic network representation of the known connections between coaches. The network is currently prohibitative dense, but should be expanded in the near future and include more interactive ways to explore the data. Running this file is not recommended, as the performance is worse than the Dash graph, but is useful when Dash's use of Flask presents an issue.

Running dash_graph.py will generate link to a page in the terminal which houses the Dash graph. Loading the graph is done manually with the CSV file generated by On3_coaching_parsing, or can be done with a JSON file for a faster load (for more details, see Creating JSON File below)

### Creating JSON File
Running export_elements.py will create a JSON file in the data folder that can be used to load the Dash cytoscape graph faster than parsing the CSV file. The file can be run two different ways by changing a value in the main argument. 
full_elements = True will generate a JSON file with all possible edges, double what is needed for visualization. This version of the file will be used in the future for graph analysis.
full_elements = False will generate a JSON file with only half the possible edges, which is the amount needed for visualization (in visualization, edges can be considered undirected). **This is the file the Dash app will be looking for in the data folder**

## Contribution
If anyone is interested in contributing to this project, please email **evankz@bu.edu** and I would be thrilled to bring you along. Particularly, I would love anyone who has experience with building interactive graphs/network representations or anyone with football experience to discuss the next steps of the project.

## Future Milestones
Primarily, the next phase of this project involves quantifying the construction of each team's coaching staff. I am happy to expand on the plans for this quantification personally.
